Scenario:


    DNS Round Robin Testing

    Significance:
        Having multiple containers on a created network respond to the same DNS address
        How to have mutiple servers support a particular domain using docker


    Goal:
        Actions:
            Create a new virtual network (default bridge driver)
            create two container using elasticsearch:2 image 
            Research on the use of --network-alias search, when creating them to give an 
                additional DNS name to respond to 
                 
            
        
             



    
    SOLUTIONS AND ISSUES:


        
        Commands:
            Best Article explaining this:
                https://vegibit.com/dns-round-robin-in-docker/
            
                

    LEARNINGS:
        What is DNS round robin?
            Round robin simply means in a circular fashion, after one we move to the next thing, while 
                maintaining a queue.
            Round robin scheduling in OS means a time quanta is assigned to a process, and after that time 
                process is up the cpu moves to the next process on the process queue.
            DNS round robbin is a simple way of balancing requests across web servers 
                Considering two servers Server A and Server B
                    DNS roundrobbin
                        The first request is sent to Server A 
                        The second request is sent to Server B
                        The third request is sent to Server A 
                        The fourth request is sent to Server B
                            A B A B, this is done continously in a queue fashion. 
                                The lastly accesed server is sent to the bottom of the queue.
                        
                        Most Basic implementation of Load Balalncing
                        Features:
                            It improves Speed (Faster response time)
                            It increases availability
            
        
        What is a CNAME?
            The concept that you can have two different hosts with DNS aliases that 
                corresponds to the same DNS name

        How a computer loads a website?
          Type in the web address in the browser, 
            Web browsers forward the query to the Computer OS
            The OS forwards it to the DNS resolver
                The DNS resolver checks its cache whether it has the ip address of the requested website
                    if not, it forwards it to the Rootname Server 
                     ROOTNAME SERVER:
                        It checks the extension of the web address such as if it is .com, .net, .org 
                        It finds it is .com, based on the extension the root name server provides the IP address
                            of the equivalent Top Level Domain Server(TLD name Server) needed to the DNS resolver 
                        The DNS resolver then sends a request to .com TLD Name Server seeking for the ip of the .com web address 
                            The TLD Name Server provides the ip address of the authoritative name server, which stores the 
                                ip address of the requested website.
                        Finally the authoritative name server provides the exact IP address requested by the DNS resolver
                        THe DNS resolver(usually our Internet Service provider), takes the IP address and stores it in his cache 
                            for future use.
                            It forwards this ip address to the OS, the OS, forwards it to the web browser 
                            The web browser sends request to the Ip address and recieves a response from the server.

                            
        
        Types of records in a DNS
            A records maps servers ip address to a domain name

        
        Cache:
            Temporary storage address to improve speed of response to request

        Domanin Name System:
            These are interpreted in form of a hierarchy
            www.facebook.com is interpreted as shown below by classifying them into servers
                .com
                .facebook
            
        Slashdot effect:
            A situation when a smaller website experiences a massive increase in traffic from being mentioned 
                on a popular website.
                It has the same effect as a denial of service attack.
        
        CPU Cycle:
            A cycle is simple measurement for the cpu execution of a simple command 
                At one cycle, the cpu executes an instruction
                Relating it with what human understand, out time frame (1s)
                1cycle/second means for every second in the human time, the cpu executes one instruction.
                    This instruction can be fetch, decode, execute.

                    This is what is known as clock speed.
                    A clockspeed of 2 gigahertz means the cpu can complete 2billion cycles in one second.
                        or complete 2 billion cpu unit instruction in one cycle.
                    
            Single electronic pulse of a cpu 
            1hertz - 1cycle/second


        Thread:
            Smallest sequence of programmed instruction
            A process can be made of multiple threads
            It is a unit of scheduling and execution
        
        Process:
            It is a unit of resources

        Network Alias:
            Containers are usually recognised by ip address on a network, but this is not efficient
                Since ip address of containers can change after being stopped or restarted on a network
            Hence to solve this, network aliases are used, which is a human readable name for a container on a particular network
                making it easy to interact with a container efficiently 


        On Completing the Project:
            Docker can have multiple containers on a given network respond to the same DNS address.
            This works on newly created custom virtual networks in Docker.
            To configure DNS Round Robin In Docker, you can use the –network-alias option.
            Use the nslookup or curl command in a container to see what containers use a DNS Name    

    Terms:
        Speed 
        Availability 
        Reliability
        Maintainability

    
